# How to use the docker container?

## Building the container
To use the docker container, you must have first installed the Docker application.
After that, use the following commands:
```
docker build . -t progetto-palli-galavotti-freddi
```

## Running the container
Once the container image has been built, you can start the container without any worries (and without building the container anymore, unless you've made modifications to the Dockerfile).
To start the container, use the following command:
```
docker run -d -it --name="cdmo" progetto-palli-galavotti-freddi:latest
```
If everything went right, when executing the command `docker ps`, you should see a single container process called `cdmo`.

## Using the container
After that, we need to enter inside of the container. To do that, just use:
```
docker exec -it cdmo bash
```
After you've run the command, you should be able to get inside the container and run the required scripts.
You can find the scripts inside of the docker container by using `cd /mine && ls -al`.

## Killing the container
After you're done with your work, you'll have to stop the container and removing it.
```
docker kill cdmo
docker rm cdmo
```
Next time you'll need to start the container, simply use the command that you've use to start the container.

## Copying files
If you need any of the generated files, such as results files, you can simply copy the files by opening another `bash` console on your local machine (not the container), and then typing

```
docker cp cdmo:/mine/res ./res
```

## In the future...
In the future, there won't be any need to get inside of the container, and the files will simply be generated by the container itself.
As of now, we're going to keep stuff like this.